I'm down in Conroe and have the very great honor of
chatting with Bob Rucker about his memories of
being a student and then being a key member of the
staff at A&M. Bob, now check yours. Okay, Haskell,
I'll do the best I can. I'll record some things.
Bob, as we begin, for the sake of someone that might
not know your background, begin by describing
where you grew up, family background, where was
home before coming to A&M. I grew up in the country
town of Franklin, Texas, 35 miles northeast of
A&M. And my mother died when I was a year and a half
old. And my grandmother took me and my sister, who
was three, to raise. And she was 47 years old and
twice with her. So we lived in the country town
hotel. And from the time we could walk, we had a job
to do. And I met everybody in the world. I never met a
stranger. I put people to bed at night as a night
clerk and never remember a thing about the next
morning. But I have one sister, and as I said, our
mother died when I was a year and a half old from flu
epidemic of World War I. And my father lived a long
time and remarried and was never part of my life,
really. It was our grandmother and an aunt and two
girl cousins and my sister. I grew up with Six
women. So anyway, then I went to A&M. What
led you to go to A&M? Why there? We didn't know
anything else but A&M, the whole family. If Robert
ever went to school, that's where he was going. And
we tried to go and wanted to go, but we didn't have
any money. And finally, I got a job, Mr. Hensel, Mr.
F. W. Hensel, who was just like a father to me all the
years, and still is. I still respect him very much,
even though he'd been gone a few years. He gave me a
job in the greenhouse, and I got to work an extra
hour every day because I had to run the heat and
ventilate the greenhouse at night. I didn't know
it, but that was quite a job to give a freshman. And
anyway, I averaged working 22 hours a week. So when
I graduated, personnel said, look, you've worked
more than half time, so you're going to get five
years prior credit for Social Security. So I took
it. Now, did you go visit the campus before
enrolling as a freshman? Yes. I went in the fall of
spring of 32 but i couldn't didn't get to go to
school until two years later in 34.
but uh i am i remember the campus from the very
beginning and of course i have enjoyed the campus
many years there's a lot of history there describe
the campus when you've what it what was there when
you first got there what did it look like looked
like heaven to an old country boy. I never saw as
many flowers and different kinds of flowers in my
life. I met Mr. Hensel. Kept that campus blooming
all the time with flyers. We had sometimes 700, 800
petunias in one bed. And there in front of the
academic building, what I guess is now
Jack, what's his name? Jack Williams. Jack
Williams building. Well, at the time I was there,
there was a small hedge in front of that
balustrade. And when I got down there, you
couldn't see the balustrade. It wasn't anything
there. It was big, high arborvitaes.
And two great big parterre beds on each end of that
big plaza, where the flagpole is now, or was then
there. But I cut those arborvitaes down. They were
40 feet tall. And people had never seen that pile of
straight. And also, the board wanted me to bring
the flowers back to the campus. So Tom Cherry came
up to Oklahoma to look at some high-rise dorms. And
he saw that what we called a test garden, a very
small garden at the time, it has since grown into a
big garden And has been endowed by alumni every
year for a big display of chrysanthemums. And it
was so spectacular three or four years ago that the
American chrysanthemums that he was meeting in
Dallas drove up there to see it. And that
precipitated the endowment or the upkeep of it by
some alumni. I've been gone from Oklahoma for
long. But anyway, the story of, we were going to
give Ms. Johnson, the Northwest Chapter of the
American Society of Landscape Architects, was
going to give Ms. Johnson a citation for her beauty
bills. She couldn't be there to accept it, so Ms.
Rudder accepted it. She sat next to me all during
the meeting, and we talked. She got back home, she
said, Earl already told the board if they'd found
the man, he'd hire him. So she got back home and
says, I found the man for you. And she put my name in
the pot. Oh, good. That's how I got back. Well,
let's go back, though, to your freshman years.
When you came to enroll, how did you come? How did
you get there? And what stuff did you bring with
you? What clothing? How much money? Somebody
brought me down in the car. I don't know who it was. I
don't remember. I didn't
have much clothes. Nobody had much clothes during
the Depression.
I knew they were going to have uniforms. I didn't
need many clothes, and that's why, thank goodness
for the military, for a lot of reasons. I arrived on
campus, and Mr. Hensel... This was the fall of 34.
Fall of 34. Mr. Hensel gave me the job in the
greenhouse. He told my aunt, he says, that guy can
get more plants than my seniors do. Of course, I'd
grown everything in Hastings Seed Catalog. I
think it would come in January each year. And my
grandmother said, now, Robert, pick out what you
want, and we'll order it. And on one side of the
hotel, we had about a half-acre garden. I raided
all the vegetables that we used in the hotel. Other
side, I could have anything I wanted, and we'd have
a flower. So I grew. A lot of things, I didn't know
they wouldn't grow in practice. I just planned the
way they grew. And every now and then somebody
said, well, what is that? Well, it can't grow here.
I said, it is. Nobody told me I couldn't grow it.
It's in the catalog, so I planned it. Do you
remember how much money you brought with you when
you were enrolled as a freshman? Practically
none, I'll tell you that. We borrowed, we got a
loan. from what they called the Farmer Students
Association at that time. And it was a very small,
it was hard to get a loan. But with my aunt
underwriting the note, we got a loan from the, did
we call it Exitutes of Farmers? I think we called it
Farmers. Anyway. I just have to come in here and say
hello to these two. Thank you. Describe Mr. Hensel
as a person, physically, and what his nature was.
One of the greatest men I ever knew in my life. He
came from San Antonio and was used to lots of
flowers in San Antonio. He put them on the campus.
He had a good grower, Mr. Monosmith, P.B.
Monosmith, M-O-N-O-S-M-I-T-H. lived in what we
call Candy Hill. It's up north of the power plant
there, as it does the faculty members. And Mr.
Hensel was like a father to me. He found out that I
knew the plants, and that I wanted to work, and I
wasn't afraid to work, and so he gave me plenty to
do. But he also, that's the news.
Now, did he, did you come to A&M thinking you were
going to major in... Mary Murchin, line one. Mary
Murchin, line one. Did you come to A&M planning to
major in horticulture, floriculture? I came to
A&M to major in floriculture, but it wasn't in the
floriculture department. The nearest thing to it
was landscape art. And there's a good story there.
He is the father of landscape architecture in the
Southwest. Now, he knew his financial support was
Dean Kyle. So he knew also, I think he was a student
enough to know that it wouldn't take very much to
change from landscape art to landscape
architecture. But he knew that if he didn't keep it
in the College of Agriculture, he wouldn't have
any fun in it. That led to the development of
landscape architecture as such. Mary Merchant,
please dial extension 104. Mary Merchant, 104.
They distribute our medicine here. Anytime we
need a pill, they come to us. No, when I found Mr.
Hensel, I thought I'd really found, well, he
always was the finest man I knew. He had high
standards. And he expected his students to be high
standards. And we worked hard. If you worked hard,
like he wanted you to, you made your grades and so
forth. We had two or three old boys that didn't want
to work as hard as he did. And they named him Butch.
Very disrespectful. Anyway, they have a funny
thing over in the College of Architecture where
they've been honoring people. And they left
Hensel out. So I corrected that real quick the next
year. I wrote out all the background and gave it to
him. But he was my real mentor, and I followed him
all the rest of my life. Every time I'd go back to
campus, there were two people I'd go to see. I'd go
to see Mr. Hensel and Mrs. Walton.
We'll chat about her later. How did you get
assigned to the Corps? What outfit and how did you
get oriented? Well, I was assigned to A Infantry.
There were a couple of boys from Franklin in the
Corps. One was Taylor Wilkins, a football player,
and he wasn't very military. But anyway, that's
why I was assigned to A Infantry. And A Infantry
lived in Hart Hall. I lived in a little room behind
the greenhouse to take care of the stuff at night.
And it's clear across the campus. And I would work
till 5 o'clock, no, 6 o'clock, and just barely make
it in time for formation, for me to formate. In
fact, I was usually late. And two sophomores
whipped me, paged me all year, because they said I
never did, I couldn't get to me to formate on time.
And finally, the Red Company commander, Ray
Thompson, from the right warden, Caught them
patting me one day. They're supposed to quit at
Christmas. It's well up in the spring. And he said,
now, why do you feel he's a fish rocker? Well, he
never gets to the meal farm ages on time. Well, he
said, did you know he worked till 6 o'clock? No, he
didn't tell us. I said, you didn't ask us. And I
said, I couldn't tell you anyway. I said, this I'm
not allowed to even think. I was insulting them
right back. And well, from then on, they left me
alone. He said, if I catch you with a hazing fish
right again, you'll wish you hadn't been born. So
that was over with. They kept asking me all year,
why didn't you tell us that you were? You didn't ask
me. It's that simple. Anyway, we won the best drill
company two years in a row, and we were all very
proud of that. They called it the Howe Trophy, and I
know we worked our socks off on that. Now, you all
would fall in in front of Hart Hall and march. No,
Sabisa. Sabisa. Describe the routine in the
dining hall for fish. Pretty rough. You didn't get
any dessert for 38 days. That's your class year.
And if you didn't know the number, you'd start all
over. And somebody, I never knew the number. So we
didn't have any dessert until well after
Christmas. And that kind of stuff. I stopped. But
it was all family style. And you...
Well, you passed everything back and forth.
Mary Merchant, please dial extension 104. Mary
Merchant, extension 104. A fish ate after
everybody else. And every now and then, somebody
would do this. Wave their hands. Well, if a girl was
there, if an opposite had a girl, and boy, did he get
upset. Somebody crawled under there and put
muscular issues. And that didn't go over too well
with the upperclassmen. And you were supposed to
bring things out of the mess hall to the
upperclassmen. Friends, we had rolls. Oh, I guess
six or eight in a bunch, you know. And you'd stick
them under your arm and walk out. And every now and
then, somebody would put a pie in their stomach,
you know, and pull a shirt over it. I had a real good
friend, Freddie Knapp, from K-N-A-P-P, from
Calvert, and he put a cherry pie in there one day,
and the sergeant saw it, and he got rid of me and
said, how are you, sonny? I'm telling you. Smacked
him in the stomach. All
kinds of pranks like this played. The worst thing
they did was some of the vet boys if they were really
in for somebody on the court. They'd take the
genitals of the horse and put it on a plate and sit in
front of him. Well, it was raunchy. Golly, it was
raunchy. What kind of tricks did Aggies play in the
dining hall in those days? You mentioned one or
two. What about some others? Well, let me think.
the making you carry things out. You know, a half a
pound of milk in a little bottle would just fit in
your sock. That would carry that out. You had to
bring something out. You were detailed to bring
something out. And if you didn't, it was pretty
bad. But they get hard on you. But I guess the worst
thing was the bird. Every time there was a girl, old
boy had his girl down for the weekend, so he could
depend on getting the bird some way. But that's
about it. Outside of not having any kush, you had to
get up at 4 Reveille and call them to attention,
battalion attention, so many more days to kush. so
that you could have some dessert. Well, we always
had two old boys and a half that never could
remember when that day would come, how many days.
So we'd start over nearly about every week or ten
days, we'd have to start over on counting the days.
Let's see, what were the nicknames y'all gave to
the various foods and drinks? See,
cow
was milk, wasn't it? Yes, cow was milk.
Was bull neck Bullock was any kind of meat. You
could have had any meat or been with somebody else.
We would do anything to insult an upper class, in
particular sophomores. We were detailed to
insult a sophomore. Knowing full well we were
going to pay for it later.
We had one old boy with a great big butt on him, and he
said something about blowing out your eyes, and
Osama said, yeah, O2 is big enough, you know. There
wasn't any place for cool heads out here in that
time of day. Were there cush questions then? Cush
questions. And I've heard some of the folks in a few
years later, like one of the cush questions was how
many stars are there in the Texas flag? And if you
answered one, they said, no, there's two. There's
one on each side. And if you said two, they'd say,
no, there's one. It goes all the way through. I
haven't heard that one. Well, that was another
gimmick. If you couldn't answer the question the
way they wanted you to, then you didn't get any
kush. You didn't get any kush, that's right. Well,
some people never got any kush until way up after
Christmas. You see, all hazing was supposed to
stop at Christmas. You were able to get two licks,
Merry Christmas, and that was it. Well, because I
never could get the meal formation on time, they
didn't quit Christmas. I went home because I
didn't want to sit down at all. Now, did you, you
lived in that room over by the greenhouses all the
time? All four years. Did you come over there to
fall in for Morning Child? Everything. The whole
thing? He got, I wouldn't think of asking him not
to. I was behind the block of the dining hall
entrance we went in.
But I was gonna be in every formation. In fact, I was
determined to be a good fish. And I worked at being a
good fish. And I had a good time. I had more fun, I
guess, as a freshman than anybody, because I
didn't care. What
was special about your outfit? Well, we were very,
very military. Our company had won the Howe
Trophy, best real company in the infantry the year
before, and our captain company commander, Red
Thompson from Throckmorton, was determined that
we were going to win again, and we did. But we had an
awful time with one fish. We had a fish named Fish
Mill from Dallas, and he had been in ROTC in high
school, and he thought he was the cock of the walk
down there, that they could win that trophy
without any help. We got all lined up, ready to go,
and we looked over in the rear rank, and there's
Fish Mills. He had had his whole uniform in the
shower. He looked like the wrath of God. And so
Ronnie Sorensen, our executive director, he's
still there. I think he's still there. Wonderful
person. And we looked back over there, and he said,
you know, if he's absent, we'll lose less points
than we'll do if he's here. So they sent him
upstairs. And somebody put him in a waste paper
basket in the room through there where he couldn't
get away. And he had to watch it. We had two people
absent, but we lost less points since they'd both
been there. And anyway, we worked hard. And we were
happy. We won the Al trophy. I think now they have
another kind of a trophy for it. Describe a typical
day of classes. What time did it begin? What was the
routine for the day and so forth?
Roughly, I had chemistry. What time did you get up
normally? Oh, I'd get up around, we had to get up
around six o'clock. We went to bed with the bugle,
got up with the bugle. I would have, I had chemistry
lecture in Claycross Hall at the gym. I had PE, and
I'd run over that way to PE and then run back to
English. And let me see, what else did I, we were, I
was either in class or at work
six, let's see, nine hours a day. And that's when
they, when they got through, when they,
everything tabled up. They said, well, you've
worked more than half time, so you get five years in
mass credit and social security, which is all
right with me. What did you do after Evening Chow?
Well, you went back to the company.
I'm not sure that I remember what we did after
Evening Chow. I said we had We all were in some kind
of a bull session with the upperclassmen. We had
twin, identical twins in our outfit, the Mountain
Brothers. Freddie was a freshman. They were from
Calvert, Parker and Gilson. And they had a long
suit the first week or two. And they'd park one on
the first floor and one on the second floor. And
you'd walk in and the second floor would say,
hello, Mr. Napp. Who the hell are you, freshman? I
never saw you before in my life. They were
identical to us, and we didn't know it. And I did
know one from the other. But they were a good body.
They moved to the Valley and ran a Chevrolet
company down there. What did you wear to class?
Describe the uniforms of the 1930s. Well, we wore
just khaki pants that were scratched, and wool
shirts that were bad. They were all
government-issued stuff. And the blouse had blue
lapel on them, because that meant you were two
years, first two years in the military. Then you
bought your stuff in junior, senior year, if you
were taking advanced military. But it was just
very plain and coarse and rough. Scratchy. All
right, what about for ceremonies? What did you all
wear for reviews and so forth? Freshman and
sophomore wore the blouses with the blue lapels as
non-contractors. When you got to be juniors and
seniors, you bought your own, and you had the
regular dress shirts, pink pants, and Sam Brown
belt, and a regular old hat. We didn't get the caps.
I don't think we got caps until the Corps took a real
late. What about some of the pranks, jokes, good
bull that Aggies played on each other? Well, of
course, everybody got drowned out one or two
times. One time I borrowed a hose from the
greenhouse and took it over and put it on the third
floor and turned it loose. And it just looked like
Niagara Falls coming down the steps. Gaga
Commons, I don't know his first name. We called him
Gaga. He was a fifth-year senior. And he decided he
would haze me one night. And he took a baseball bat
and hit me so hard. I said, I'm about to go back up
there. I just kept on going down the steps. And I
left him. And then I lived literally in that
greenhouse area to take care of at night. The bunch
of boys soon found out that they'd come running
down that road and come into the greenhouse and
crawl around the benches and stay there. So they
did. And
I thought Mr. Hinton might object, but he didn't.
He wasn't for hazing anyway. So he didn't object to
that. Did y'all steal anybody's footlocker, any
of your CO's footlocker? No. Didn't? We didn't do
that kind of pranks. We had one, I'll never forget,
Lord have mercy. Across the street from Hart is
Goodwin. I don't know if it's still there or not.
But they had big furnaces in it, and every night the
chimney suits would come in by the droves. And we
had a senior... A. Gibb Trimley,
T-R-I-M-B-L-E-Y, who was a major on the Corps
staff. Well, you couldn't touch him with a 10-foot
pole. So one night, somebody detailed us just to
fix him up. So we caught about two or three sacks of
those stinking chimneysweeps. And we didn't open
the door, knock on the door, and walk in and dump
them in your room. You have never seen such a mess in
your life. Of course, we had to clean it all up. And
you know about ratting the rooms. Just drive it,
please. All right. The sophomore was having a
class meeting. And while they were gone, we were
supposed to take their room apart. And we didn't
know what taking a room apart was until we had our
class meeting. And they took our room apart. They
even took the bed springs apart. We actually never
got that thing put back together. But when we—that
was called ratting the rooms. And you took it apart
like you couldn't believe. And Hart Hall was lucky
to have a blazed tile. We didn't quite tear it up.
But you know, we had to put up a room to buy it. And I
put up a room to buy it and ran into that room over the
greenhouse. Because this is as darned to a room.
But...
Describe that... You put up a room to put it, but
nobody ever got a room to put it back. There was much
damage done to the dormitory during the year. They
used all that money and then some to put it back
together. Describe that room you lived in over by
the greenhouse. What was in it? How big was it? It
was just big enough to get a bunk bed and one end of
it. And it was a regular bunk bed, and we had just
plain old planks put together for a closet in there
and a desk. And that was all. I didn't have a bath. I
had to go a half block up a street. I wish I could
remember the dormitory's name. You'll have to get
it for me. And I'd take a bath. There was a field
artillery there, and I was an infantry freshman
that nobody knew. And I'd go up to this old boy's
room I knew in class and take a bath. Finally, I
finally got a—I had a commode—finally got a
shower in there, and it was water you turned steam
in to get it hot. Of course, you had to be careful you
didn't scald yourself. Anyway, we finally got
that—I guess my senior year.
The, how did things change for you as a sophomore?
How was life different? Well, I didn't believe in
hazing freshmen, so I didn't haze any fish. I never
did haze any fish. And I, well, of course, I didn't,
you didn't have much trouble during sophomore. If
you'd been a good fish and which I tried to do. I did
have a corporal rank, even though I lived clear
over there. That's because of, I guess, of what I
did in the company. And also because I liked
military. But change didn't take very much for me.
I was a squad leader. That gave me some more
training. And then when I started to be in the
junior year, they decided I was a day student
instead of a dormitory student, even though I paid
dormitory rent. So I decided I was a day student,
and they were going to put all the day students in
one outfit. So they had three companies, a
headquarters, a headquarters second time,
headquarters third time, Anyway, there were
three day companies, and one of my very best
friends who was filing with us at the Experiment
Station,
Tom, wait a minute, I forgot his name. Anyway,
there were three day companies, and we all had a
company. I was the first sergeant of one, and Tom
McMillan, I was sergeant one, and I forget who the
other one was. Anyway, we had, for three years, we
had day student companies. Even though I stayed in
that room and paid rural dormitory rent, because I
didn't live in the dorms per se, I was considered a
day student. Did you live in that room over the
greenhouse all four years? All four years. I had
the responsibility
of not, well, seeing the heat and ventilation was
done on the greenhouse, and all we had for heat was
cutting steam, live steam, into cold water again.
Hot water system, which is a good system. It's a
good level system, even temperature, until you
boiled it all over and started over again. And I
took care of the greenhouse and ventilation. But I
would have to go from that room, clear the hard
hall, to make meal formations. And that's why many
times they'd catch me about selling when they
played to the colors, and I'd have to stop and
salute. And then by the time I got to that, They were
already here in Squad Z and going to the time
missile. And that's what those two sophomores
equipped me for. I was never on time for formation.
And when the company commander finally called
away, I was free. As you began your courses as a
freshman, What were some of the most memorable
courses that you took? The only course I liked, I
had two of them. I liked botany and entomology.
I made an A-plus on the final exam in entomology.
I'll never forget that, because the doctor, the
teacher wouldn't believe me. He said, I can't
believe that you know the names, the names of all
these insects. I said, well, that's what you
taught us, you know. And that was, I loved
entomology and I loved botany. And of course you
took all that, you took government and history and
English and I enjoyed my course, and of course we
had a brand new man out of West Point, Captain
Moses, Lieutenant Moses. He was promoted our
junior year, I believe, to captain as a military
instructor. And he was captured by the active
baton. He was with a bunch of gorillas. and
somebody squealed on him, and they captured him
and shot him. But he was an awfully good officer.
Who were some of the other fine teachers you had
during those four years?
Let me think a minute. I took all the history of
architecture I could take. I took four courses
under Charles Mattoon Brooks.
very slight built young man, but he was an
excellent teacher. And I liked the history of
architecture much. We didn't have history of
landscape architecture. So I took every course in
history he had and loved them all. And then
Dr. Adriens and Mr. Bryson in horticulture. Mr.
Bryson was an excellent teacher and later a
friend, and I went back. And
I can't think of who else. Of course, chemistry
didn't take on me. I made a D and an E in chemistry. Do
you remember who the teacher was? Dr. Potts. Did he
have a nickname? No, that's Dr. Potts. Later, when
I was back at A&M on staff, Dick Fox was there. This
man, I had a lecture. We had the big lecture hall at 8
o'clock in the morning. I did. And then we held the
two labs. But I didn't have any high school
chemistry or anything like that. The chemistry
just didn't take on me. I made a D the first
semester. And E the second semester. And E meant
that if you take a D quiz at the beginning of the next
semester and make a C, no, make a D, it would be your
grade. So I got two Ds in freshman chemistry. And I
didn't take ag chemistry. I'd never gotten out of
A&M. What about English? I enjoyed English very
much. Who? I had good English teachers in high
school.
He coached the debate team, and I can't remember. I
don't remember my English teacher's name.
History? Did you have any American history,
European history? You know, I can't remember
their names. I took 12 hours of education as
electives, and it came in handy later. Who did you
turn to for advice and counsel if you needed... Who
was your favorite advisor? We didn't know what an
advisor was back in those days. If
you made 35 grade points your freshman year, you
could take extra work. And in spite of my two D's, I
had 35 grade points. So I said, well, I came here to
go to school. So I took, I was either in class or at
work. 9 hours a day. And I didn't have time for
anything else. All the requirement was that if you
made 35 grade points, you'd take extra work. And I
didn't ask them how much, I just took it. And I'd
take 40 hours, and one of them a year, I took 44
hours. Didn't ask anybody, didn't tell anybody.
Took it and made the best grade you ever made. uh the
what were the the what was the the rules or the
typical pattern of behavior in class when you all
went to class what you were you act like gentlemen
you stayed there there was no disturbance uh when
the when the military The professor walked in, he
stood at attention until he said, at ease. No,
there was no food around. It was all business. Did
you ever go to sleep in class? I probably did, but I
don't remember when or what. They were usually
pretty interesting all the way. We had several
things happen that were really interesting. They
were in 1934.
Anybody told you about the Federal Transit Bureau
yet?
Well, in the fall of 34, sometime during 34, the
young men were hobos riding the rails all over the
country. So somebody decided that they ought to be
in college, so the government will set up a program
called the Federal Transit Bureau, and they'll
take these kids and put them in school. Lord have
mercy. They put them in Old Ross Hall, the worst
dormitory on the campus, and it was four to the room
and horrible showers and cottages. That was the
year that at midterm you could buy any file on
campus because these boys knew them. They'd break
in and get them, and they had them. And the only way
they discovered was the head of the history
department went back one night to the office, and
when he opened the door, somebody jumped out the
second story window. And the next day, across that
free between the second and first floor, seeing,
seeing on the radars in red paint.
But that only lasted a very short time. Those kids
were stealing of all the final exams. And anybody
could buy a final exam if they had the money and the
price they wanted. Do you remember what the price
was? Well, the standard price of anything was $5.
And then if you wanted more, they'd get more. But I
think at midterm that year, every final exam on
campus would circulate. So they got rid of that
bunch in the last long. One man stayed, Stephen E.
Sackash, S-A-C-K-A-S-H. Steve was a real good
friend of mine, and he was going to get out. He's the
only one I knew that finished that bunch. He didn't
have any clothes, he didn't have any uniform,
anything. So I stayed for a graduate year, one year
of graduate work, and I gave him, I had worn the
soles of my boots three times, so I gave him my whole
uniform. And he wore it with pride all day. But
that's about all the clothes he had. And anyway,
let's see. Oh, that was also the time that we came
into, it was during this time that we,
who was president, I can't think of his name. I say
that's before Walton, isn't it? No, this is well
after Walton. Oh. I can get you to stir it on Walton,
too. This was the... The highway, director of the
highway. Oh, Gilchrist. Gilchrist came, and
Gilchrist brought, Gilchrist established the
roadside beautification program. He brought a
man named Jack Gubbels, G-U-B-B-E-L-S,
over with his bride, and he set up the roadside
beautification program, and he wrote a book
called called American Highways and Roadsides,
published in 38. And I had a copy. And Lady Bird
Johnson came over to the university. And I asked
the president to give it to her. And he said, no, you
give it to her. That was Jack Williams. He said, you
give it to her. And she said, I've been trying to
find this book for years. And I said, well, you can
certainly have that one. And so it's in her library
there. Oh, how nice. But then when Walter became
president, I'm not sure about the background on
this and when he became president, but it must have
been in the early 30s. Because when he went to the
president's home, as I understand it back there,
the highest
rank on campus was director of the Experiment
Station. That was prior to 30. Anyway, when the
director of the Experiment Station,
they decided that they needed a president, they
got Walton, who was at that time director of the
Experiment Station. And his, her, or Ms. Walton
came there And her father was named Turner, and he
lived in Mount Enterprise. And he decided that she
had to have some help. So he gave her two servants,
Willie Phillips and Manny McKaney,
M-C-K-A-N-E-Y. And they were there. I knew both of
them real well. And where they stayed, I don't
know, because this was before the time of domestic
health. Segregation. But he said there was two
down there. As far as you know, did they live on the
campus? They lived somewhere on the campus. I had
backdoor privileges. That's another tale. Mr.
Hensel took me over there my freshman year. He
said, Ms. Walden, this is Robert Rucker, and
anytime you need flowers, you just call him. I
never put a fly in a bowl in my life. And I didn't know
where to get any. He said, now, you can cut anything
you have on the campus. And if you ever need
anything special, let me know, and we'll buy some.
So that's the way it was. Anyway, I came out of the,
I'd just go in the back door of the president's
home, and I wouldn't dare tell a sophomore. They'd
beat the hell out of me with their head. I'd go in,
and I had backdoor privilege at the practice home,
and I remember I'd tell Maddie, could I, Maddie
would offer me a piece of pie, and I said, I'd like a
cup of coffee. Freshmen don't have to use a drink of
coffee. I'll give you some milk. She wouldn't give
me a cup of coffee at all. But there were loads full
of flower beds across the, driveway from the
president's home. And I took care of those flower
beds. And whatever we had, we planted. But to get
things for the table, I could cut anything I could
find just so I didn't use a scratcher doing it. And
we finally got some to grow a few flowers for her.